@deffn {Autoconf Macro} GUILE_PROGS

This macro looks for programs @code{guile}, @code{guile-config} and
@code{guile-tools}, and sets variables @var{GUILE}, @var{GUILE_CONFIG} and
@var{GUILE_TOOLS}, to their paths, respectively.  If either of the first two
is not found, signal error.

The variables are marked for substitution, as by @code{AC_SUBST}.

@end deffn

@deffn {Autoconf Macro} GUILE_FLAGS

This macro runs the @code{guile-config} script, installed with Guile, to
find out where Guile's header files and libraries are installed.  It sets
two variables, @var{GUILE_CFLAGS} and @var{GUILE_LDFLAGS}.

@var{GUILE_CFLAGS}: flags to pass to a C or C++ compiler to build code that
uses Guile header files.  This is almost always just a @code{-I} flag.

@var{GUILE_LDFLAGS}: flags to pass to the linker to link a program against
Guile.  This includes @code{-lguile} for the Guile library itself, any
libraries that Guile itself requires (like -lqthreads), and so on.  It may
also include a @code{-L} flag to tell the compiler where to find the
libraries.

The variables are marked for substitution, as by @code{AC_SUBST}.

@end deffn

@deffn {Autoconf Macro} GUILE_SITE_DIR

This looks for Guile's "site" directory, usually something like
PREFIX/share/guile/site, and sets var @var{GUILE_SITE} to the path.
Note that the var name is different from the macro name.

The variable is marked for substitution, as by @code{AC_SUBST}.

@end deffn

@deffn {Autoconf Macro} GUILE_CHECK_RETVAL var check 

@var{var} is a shell variable name to be set to the return value.
@var{check} is a Guile Scheme expression, evaluated with "$GUILE -c", and
   returning either 0 or non-#f to indicate the check passed.
   Non-0 number or #f indicates failure.
   Avoid using the character "#" since that confuses autoconf.

@end deffn

@deffn {Autoconf Macro} GUILE_MODULE_CHECK var module featuretest description 

@var{var} is a shell variable name to be set to "yes" or "no".
@var{module} is a list of symbols, like: (ice-9 common-list).
@var{featuretest} is an expression acceptable to GUILE_CHECK, q.v.
@var{description} is a present-tense verb phrase (passed to AC_MSG_CHECKING).

@end deffn

@deffn {Autoconf Macro} GUILE_MODULE_AVAILABLE var module 

@var{var} is a shell variable name to be set to "yes" or "no".
@var{module} is a list of symbols, like: (ice-9 common-list).

@end deffn

@deffn {Autoconf Macro} GUILE_MODULE_REQUIRED symlist 

@var{symlist} is a list of symbols, WITHOUT surrounding parens,
like: ice-9 common-list.

@end deffn

@deffn {Autoconf Macro} GUILE_MODULE_EXPORTS var module modvar 

@var{var} is a shell variable to be set to "yes" or "no".
@var{module} is a list of symbols, like: (ice-9 common-list).
@var{modvar} is the Guile Scheme variable to check.

@end deffn

@deffn {Autoconf Macro} GUILE_MODULE_REQUIRED_EXPORT module modvar 

@var{module} is a list of symbols, like: (ice-9 common-list).
@var{modvar} is the Guile Scheme variable to check.

@end deffn

